# Bank Marketing Using Machine Learning

For this project, we chose to use the "Bank Marketing Data Set" that is stored in the Machine Learning Repository by the University of California, Irvine. The initial purpose of the data was to predict whether a customer would subscribe to a long-term deposit, which would allow the institution to better pursue those customers specifically. The data set contains 21 attributes and 41,188 instances collected via a telephone marketing campaign led by a “Portuguese banking institution” (Moro et al June 2014). While the data set only contains one prescribed target outcome (Long Term Deposits), we chose to additionally perform a second predicition. The second prediction we decided to create was what level of education (i.e., high school, years of college, illiteracy, etc.) is associated with increased potential of taking a long-term deposit. (S. Moro, P. Cortez and P. Rita. A Data-Driven Approach to Predict the Success of Bank Telemarketing. Decision Support Systems, Elsevier, 62:22-31, June 2014)

To predict our two desired outcomes, we constructed models using the remaining predictors. We hypothesized that success from our models would increase the efficiency of our telemarketing team regarding long-term deposits. In addition, the type of customer who is likely to take a long-term deposit can be readily distinguished and targeted, thereby increasing the number of long-term deposits held by the institution.

Predicting education and term deposit resulted in us solving a classification problem. Ultimately we decided in predicting term deposit through Logistic Regression to provide some room for interpretation, and we chose a more abstract clustering model to predict the education of the person of interest. The effectiveness of the classification model will be measured through metrics such as accuracy and recall, where recall is equal to the number of true positives divided by the sum of true positives and false negatives (sensitivity). Additionally, to ensure the strength of our model, we will perform 10 fold cross validation as an attempt to construct a model that will perform well with other data sets.
